>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So
let's talk about types.
So I want to talk about
a couple of different,
the types of types that are available
that has value and reference.
The core thing that I kind
of want to emphasize is
the how these things get
passed between methods.
So I'm going to go ahead and
format this nicely.
I'm going to declare this person type.
Don't worry too much about
the syntax right now.
It's just a way of defining a person,
a with a name and an age, and
you can see that we instantiate it
here and that we change the age.
So a value type property that is really
important to understand is that when you
pass in that age,
it's passing in a copy of that value.
It is not passing in
the actual value itself.
So if we check this and we go down, you
can see that 20 is the value of the age.
So if we do console dot write line,
person dot age.
Age has not changed.
Play, we'll run it, and you can see
that person.age has not changed.
And that's because value types,
they're on a, first of all,
they're on a much faster space of memory.
They're collected, they are,
they are deallocated or
removed from memory as soon as
they're removed from scope.
And they're considered to be
on what's on the stack, so
they're a lot faster to access.
Those are the properties of value types.
The most important part to note in this
is that copies of value types are passed
around typically to methods.
You can refer to them by reference.
In most business programming, in most
programming I've done, I've not done that,
but in certain high performance
situations, that can be useful.
The important thing to note is
that value types simply just
are passed around by copy.
So, you see that even though we've
changed this value of age to 10,
it does not affect our person class,
whereas a reference type does not
have that same kind of protection.
So let's take this,
this example, into it, and
use this as our example, boom, boom.
So you can see that we still have
a person, we have old name, and
then we're gonna change their name.
So I'm gonna write that out this,
because it's what we refer to
as an instance of a class.
So this is a person,
this is a real walking person, or
at least a representation of one.
We're gonna change their name, and
what we're gonna do is we're gonna
pass in this person reference.
So a reference type is a variable that
points to a certain location in memory.
It doesn't actually have
an actual copy of the value.
That's mostly important for the purposes
of understanding kind of how reference
types are treated, mainly in terms of
the ability to change values on them.
But you can see that because it's
a reference type and not a value type,
as soon as we change
Person.Names name to New Name,
that's what's printed to the console.
This person is now their
name is now changed, and
that's really the most important piece,
semantic difference, or
day to day difference,
that I want you to absorb.
When we're talking about value
types versus reference types,
it's mainly as they're passed around,
how they're treated.
And reference types are essentially
mutable, they're not passed by value,
they're not made,
we don't make a copy of this person.
The actual person is given
to the change name method.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I did
touch on stack versus heap.
Not super necessary to know this in depth
for the purposes of this course, but
it is certainly there if
you wanna refer to it.
The important thing to note is that
reference- Types because they're stored on
the heap and
they are not deallocated right away.
As soon as they leave scope, they
are actually deallocated by the garbage
collector, which is the process that
the CLR uses to clear up memory.
The difference between those things for
the purposes of this course isn't super,
super important.
Just know that value types
are deallocated very quickly,
whereas reference types may
not be deallocated right away.
And that really makes a difference when
you're talking about a large amount of
objects in memory.
Okay, so as long as we're
talking about value types and
reference types, we talked about kind of
default values for value types, right?
So we can actually set using this keyword,
we'll call it a, and
we can say the default type for a and
the default type is basically given
a value type or a reference type.
What is the quote unquote default value.
For a value like int, it's gonna be 0.
For float, it's gonna be 0 Boolean,
it's gonna be false and so on.
But reference types are different
because they have to deal with null.
So this is a really fun part
of the .NET runtime and
a source of frustration for
many developers.
So if you're of if you're a developer and
you've experienced an error like this and
you're in good company because value
reference types can have what's
called be what's called null, and
null is is complete absence of a value.
To the point of if you try to access or
use a reference type that does not have
a value, if we change this to null and
we run this,
we are going to get a runtime error and.
You'll see that the runtime error
is indeed null reference exception,
which I've touched on as
being the most common and
probably the most frustrating for new and
senior developers and .NET alike.
This is not specifically
just a .NET thing.
There's the same thing
happens in JavaScript, right?
When you get the error it's
something that's like you can't make
a function call on an empty object,
it's essentially the same thing.
So nullability is kind of
an important thing to understand and
embrace when you're talking about because
most of the types that you're gonna be
working with in programming are going
to be a reference type of some kind.
So it's important to understand
the implications of null.
Now, recently, Microsoft has added
features to the language and
and to later versions of NET to handle
this more gracefully for new projects.
You can actually turn on what's
called Explicit like nullability and
turn it on,
turn on explicit like nullable handling.
Reference types in most code bases,
especially older ones are gonna
be treated as a person like this is
going to be treated as I can be null or
I cannot be null, it's one of the two.
If you have nullability turned on, you
can, if you have nullability turned on,
you can treat those as
explicitly saying like,
okay, I explicitly want the,
to mark this class as being null.
So let me show you kind
of what that looks like.
So we haven't talked about null, nullable
types, but there are ways to set an int,
for instance, to a null, and
that is a nullableInt = null.
So this question mark basically
says that is a variable that can or
cannot have a value.
What are the implications of that?
Well, nullable is a special class
that has two properties on it.
It has value and it has value and
it has value is a Boolean to say,
does this nullable structure have a value?
And if it does,
then you can access it with value.
And if it doesn't, if you try to access
the value, it will throw a runtime error.
And we can see that here,
nullableInt.value.
You can see that if we run this.
That you see that we get an invalid
operation exception because nullable
object must have a value and you can
see that we've set it to not nullable.
So this has been a feature for
a long time in .NET and
only recently the last few years.
Do they add this feature for
of this nullable feature
to reference types as well.
Such that you can say,
in a method, for instance,
you can say this person might be null,
to which it would turn around and
warn you, hey, you might be dealing
with the null reference here.
So you can ask the little you can
ask the little thing to say, well,
what should i What should I do to
which case, if you're using a brow,
right, an ID, like writer,
it will suggest fixes for you.
Sometimes this there are,
there are fixes to which .NET just does,
wants to warn you, but the IDE
doesn't have a fix for you in line.
So the way to do that is to
check to see if it's null first,
person does not equal null.
And you can see that, put that in some
curly braces and you can see that now we
have person.name, we've safely checked it,
and c sharp's compiler
stops complaining at us What is a use
case for having a nullable integer?
A nullable integer.
Let's say that you're working in
a database, and you're holding
a database of people, and two of
the required fields are first name and
last name, but you don't require age
as a field for creating that user.
You would put the value in that
database as just being null.
But then later down the line, now you
could say, well, I wanna set this age or
date of birth is another field that
can be nullable, so, great question.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I
do want to mention boxing and
unboxing only because it's
slightly important just in kind of
understanding how reference types and
value types operate.
And I touched on this earlier, but
if you assign the value of an int,
like this number here to a value that is
typed object, this will be converted to
a value, to a reference type,
it's referred to as boxing.
And boxing has some
unique characteristics,
this thing will now get stored
on the heap and not the stack.
And it's really only important to know
as a thing that happens at the runtime,
at the runtime level.
Most of the time in programming, you're
able to kind of just ignore this and
most of the time, you're not declaring
ints inside of an object and
then unboxing them later, but
essentially, it's converting back and
forth from a value to a reference type.
Again, this is not super important for
most day to day programming, but
it is a thing to know, yes, Mark,
>> Student: Could you get buffer overflow
when using a null Integer?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Can you
use a buffer overflow getting if
you use a null integer?
I don't know.
I don't know about a buffer overflow.
But if you're typically, if you're trying
to access the value of a nullable integer
and it is null, then what you'll get
is invalid operation, exception.
And you can see that if you navigate
into the nullable code, you can see
that the value here is if it does not
have a value, then it's going to throw
the invalid operation exception that says
that nullable object must have a value.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: It's pretty much
the only exception that I know that you're
going to encounter when you're
dealing with a nullable value type.